Whenever SQL Server gets a query to execute it performs two major steps to return the query output. The first step is query compilation, which generates a query execution plan by the SQL Server relational engine and the second step is execution of the query execution plan by the SQL Server storage engine.The SQL order of execution defines the order in which the clauses of a query are evaluated. Some of the most common query challenges people run into could be easily avoided with a clearer understanding of the SQL order of execution, sometimes called the SQL order of operations.SQL executes innermost sub query first, and then the next level. The results of the sub query are the query conditions of the primary query. So in this case, the query sequence is sub query-> primary query, then the option b is the right answer.The FROM clause: First, all data sources are defined and joined. The WHERE clause: Then, data is filtered as early as possible. The CONNECT BY clause: Then, data is traversed iteratively or recursively, to produce new tuples.Which of the following is the correct order of occurrence in a typical SQL statement? “Where” always comes before “group by” and “having” always comes after “group by”subquery is also called an inner query or inner select, while the statement containing a subquery is also called an outer query or outer select. The inner query executes first before its parent query so that the results of an inner query can be passed to the outer query.ORDER BY is evaluated before the SELECT, as the ordering changes the results returned.Sequence is a set of integers 1, 2, 3, … that are generated and supported by some database systems to produce unique values on demand. A sequence is a user defined schema bound object that generates a sequence of numeric valuesSimply put three queries one after the other in a . sql file, with semi-colons after each statement, then execute it as a script (either on a SQL*Plus prompt using @scriptname. sql or in TOAD/SQL Developer [or equivalent] using its script execution function).The sub-query always executes before the execution of the main query. Subqueries are completed first. The result of the subquery is used as input for the outer query.SQL Server order does not matter in the WHERE condition. SQL Server does not short circuit conditions as well it does not help in performance.To include multiple statements in a SQL query:
Set the DSQEC_RUN_MQ global variable to 1: SET GLOBAL (DSQEC_RUN_MQ=1. When the variable is set to 0, all statements after the first statement in the query are ignored when you issue the RUN QUERY command.
Place a semicolon at the end of each SQL statement on the panel.Query execution is not that complicated. MySQL simply follows its plan, fetching rows from each table in order and joining based on the relevant columns.
...
How is a query executed in MySQL?
FROM clause.
WHERE clause.
GROUP BY clause.
HAVING clause.
SELECT clause.
ORDER BY clause.To execute more than one SQL statement, set the CommandText property of a Command object to multiple SQL statements separated by semicolons (;). After calling the ExecuteReader method, the DataReader will hold the number of result sets equal to the number of SQL statements executed.In this article, I will describe step by step the logical process phases during the execution of a query into a relational database. For doing that, I am going to use two simple unnormalized form tables: Citizen and City. They are described as followed:Let’s say that we want to know the name of only two city names, except San Bruno, where two or more citizens are living on. We also want the result ordered alphabetically.

This is the query to get the required information.Citizen table contains data of distinguished citizens and the identification number of the city they live on, and City is the table with city names and their respective identification number.The result of executing this operation will keep the set as the figure above. This is because there are two or more elements in every group.During this step, the processor evaluates what will be printed as a result of the query, and if there are some functions to run on data like Distinct, Max, Sqrt, Date, Lower, etc. In this case, the select clause just prints the city names and alias the city_name column with the identifier “City”.The Having clause consists of a logical predicate, it is processed after the Group by and it can no longer refer to individual rows, only to groups of rows.The next step is to execute Group by clause, it will group rows that have the same values into summary rows. After this point, all Select expressions will be evaluated per group, instead of being evaluated per row.By using examples, we will explain the execution order of the six most common operations or pieces in an SQL query. Because the database executes query components in a specific order, it's helpful for the developer to know this order. It's similar to following a recipe: you need to know the ingredients and what to do with ingredients, but you also need to know in which order do the tasks. If the database follows a different order of operations, the performance of the query can decrease dramatically.

The best way to learn SQL order of operations is through practice. I recommend LearnSQL.com's SQL Practice track. It contains over 600 hands-on exercises to practice your SQL skills. Or select the best course for you from over 30 interactive SQL courses we offer at various levels of proficiency.this article, we will work with a database for a typical company that has employees distributed in different departments. Each employee has an ID, a name, and a salary and belongs to a department, as we can see in the following tables.
